# Patty Berg’s Trophy

This artifact shows Patty Berg receiving an award from both the president of Women’s Western Golf Association and Babe Didrikson. Patty Berg, who is in the center of the picture, was one of Babe Didrikson’s (right) fellow competitors in golf tournaments. They were both seen as the best women golfers of the era, and it is only fitting for Patty Berg’s top adversary to hand her the trophy for winning the Women’s Western Open. This artifact was chosen because along with this trophy, Patty Berg had won $500 and instead of keeping it to herself, decided it would be best to donate the prize money to a fund for the advancement of golf amongst young women. This selfless act from young and talented Patty Berg exemplifies how women worked together to show the nation that they want equality and nothing less. This picture of Patty Berg being handed the trophy by her greatest competitor in golf answers another significant part of the essential question. These two opponents in sports had great sportsmanship, and showed the world that they fought for the same thing. Both Patty Berg and Babe Didrikson fought for equality for women in sports which means they also fought for overall equality for women. It is truly heartwarming to see such competitive opponents coming together and representing the strength of women and it goes without saying that their feats in sports show that women are more than capable of acquiring their rights, and it is only a matter of time until they do gain these basic human rights.
