# How the TSU Tigerbelles Debunked Pseudoscience and Won the Eyes of the Nation

Mae Faggs, Isabelle Daniels, Wilma Rudolph and Lucinda Williams: 4 Female African American Athletes who represented TSU in 1956 for relay, standing with our artifact, an original hurtle. Their clothing is notably less geared towards a feminine image, and more towards practicality and a competitive edge.

In the 1950s, Ed Temple was appointed as the head coach of the all black women’s track team at Tennessee State University and given a very small budget of $64. Black women at the time faced prejudice due to both Jim Crow laws. Additionally, the popular “scientific” opinion was that running was dangerous for women as it would cause health issues, along with the idea that athletic women couldn’t be feminine. 

In order to compensate for the enormous financial constraints, Coach Ed Temple made his track program extremely rigorous, with his athletes waking up at 5AM each day, often through extreme heat. Famously, the tigerbelles had to run on dirt and cinder tracks which were extremely rough due to being coarse, which would cause worse grip (and hence, slower times), and also make falling more dangerous causing cinder tattoos. To make matters worse, the track was originally located near a pigpen causing terrible odors.

Coach Temple insisted his athletes be respected and allowed to wear the competitive attire. He also maintained that all his athletes maintain strong academic standings, with all but one of his Olympians graduating the university, showing that women could be elite athletes without needing to sacrifice their dignity off the field.

The 1950s marked their start of international fame with 2 members of the Tigerbelles, Mae Faggs and Barbara Jones, winning the gold medal of the Helsinki 1952 Olympics 4x100 relay race. This increased fame allowed for TSU to issue more athletic scholarships, which was incredibly rare in the 50s. It also brought better funding that began to close the gender pay gap, due to their incredible performance.
