# Founding the LPGA 

Artifact: An original 1954 trophy. In the photo, Babe Didrikson Zaharias celebrates with the U.S. Women's Open trophy after her 1954 victory at Salem Country Club. She was later named the AP's "Woman Athlete of the Half Century".

In 1950, the LPGA was formed, marking it as the oldest women’s sports organization in the world. They started off with a tour that year, which started with the Tampa Open in Florida in January, and ending with the Hardscrabble Women’s Invitational in October. 

It held 15 official tournaments with the top prize earner that year, Babe Didrikson Zaharias, winning $15,000 dollars (~200k today) and a total prize pool around $40,000 dollars. This is notably a humble start compared to the LPGA today which has over 30 official tournaments, $130 million dollars in prize money, and far less than the ~550 million dollars of the PGA tour 2025. There were 13 founding members of the LPGA, all of whom have been nominated for the golf hall of fame. 

The creation of the league was notably marked by a lack of interest by many in the public including sponsors who politely ignored the league. This created financial issues similar to the WPGA which started in 1944, and ended in 1948 due to a lack of sponsors. Many didn’t care to follow the league. As the founder Marilynn Smith said, "We were supposed to be married and have children. It wasn't normal to have a woman on the golf course”, along with “Powerful women always make certain people uneasy”, explaining that the societal expectations for women was to remain in the background of society.
