# Cards Artifact

Wilma Rudolph’s cards are very rare collectible trading cards, as women of color make up less than 1% of the athletes featured in the Olympic card collection. Wilma represented persistence and determination, as she had to overcome many obstacles to get to the Olympics.

Growing up in a small town in Tennessee, Rudolph’s leg was partially paralyzed at the age of 4, forcing her to wear a leg brace from the ages of 6 - 12. Despite this challenge, she still found her love and talent for running.
During the 1960s, many women were abandoning sports and working out due to the idea that it gave them an “unfeminine physique”, something that was very frowned upon. Despite this way of thinking, many Black colleges saw it as an opportunity to uplift racial injustices. 

She was coached and trained in Nashville at Tennessee A&I University by coach Ed Temple. At just 16, Rudolph ran the 4x100 meter relay team at the Olympics, earning a bronze medal. Rudolph later competed in the 1960 Olympics in Rome, being the first Black woman to win 3 gold medals in a single Olympic Games. She won gold in the 100-meter dash, 200-meter dash, and 4x100 meter relay.

With the 1960 Olympic Games being the first Olympic Games to have worldwide TV coverage, Rudolph received significant publicity for her achievements. She was given many nicknames, such as “The Black Pearl” by the Italian press and “The Queen of the Olympics” by the Russian press.

Rudolph also presented herself in a traditionally feminine manner, challenging the stereotype that female athletes could not be both athletic and feminine. She helped to break stereotypes placed on Black women and women in sports. Rudolph helped propel track and field for girls for future generations, proving to the world that women can be just as athletic as men.
